So, friends, we have finished the first chapter,
we have defined the main parameters of planning,
and now we are moving directly to the planning process.
First of all, we are engaged in forecasting the money flows.
In general, planning of finances,
strategic, operational, tactical,
is the final stage of planning
of the entire business activity.
In order to make a financial plan,
we need the data of the marketing plan,
production plan, organizational plans,
and all other types of business plans.
But to follow the composition of these plans,
usually in parallel,
since it is necessary to ensure feedback,
to take into account the production realities,
and, on the contrary,
to make adjustments to the management plans
according to the parameters of the financial planning.
Financial planning is based on the concept of money flows.
You remember this scheme,
this is the basic scheme of German financial management.
This scheme allows us to look at the enterprise
in a relationship with other enterprises.
The scheme of money flows.
Here we see how the enterprise is connected
with other enterprises in the markets of production,
in the markets of purchases.
We have a state, we have financial markets
from which the enterprise receives loans,
and all this is aimed at one task,
to ensure the continuity of money flows.
We need to ensure liquidity.
Therefore, in the planning phase,
we first link commodity flows with financial flows
and provide for all the upcoming payment obligations
to be paid in due time
to suppliers, to creditors,
to employees of the enterprise on the salary,
of course, to the state.
Thus, the task is to cover all possible deficits in due time
or, again, we do not forget that money should work,
so we provide for the effective use of free financial resources,
of surplus.
The planning process involves a certain sequence,
certain steps of planning.
In general, they are universal and go in one scheme.
First of all, we need to consider all commodity flows.
What commodity flows we have from the markets of purchases,
what resources we buy,
how much, with what frequency,
and, accordingly, we must determine how much financial funds
will be needed for this in the financial planning.
We must develop an investment plan,
additional investments if we plan to expand activity
or, in general, investments if we create a new enterprise.
In parallel with the investment plan,
accordingly, we have an amortization calculation plan.
Then we must calculate the cost of revenue
and calculate the cost for this revenue.
In addition, when growing revenue,
we must take into account that we will need
some additional investments,
investments in reserves.
This is the sphere of turnover calculations,
pure turnover capital.
After that, we can start
directly forming the main document of financial planning,
the table of money flows.
Well, first we can conditionally call this table
the table of real commodity exchange.
Here we apply only the positions
associated with the movement of goods,
namely, revenue, cost,
the purchase of necessary machines, equipment,
the creation of stock of return funds.
The result of this table shows us
the need for financing.
This table is necessarily made up
for the entire horizon of planning
with a breakdown of planning steps.
We are talking about a forecast document,
a document that is made up for several years,
at least 5 years, 3-5 years,
and is broken down into smaller planning steps.
In the simplest form, this is according to the years.
Sometimes the features of planning,
the features of the enterprise's activities
can imply quarterly planning.
Even forecast planning
is a breakdown by quarters.
We see that this table reflects all the flows
and outflows of funds that are necessary
for the maintenance of operational processes,
real commodity exchange processes.
Here is the sequence of components.
Revenue from implementation,
which comes to us from the marketing plan,
how many goods, what price we produce,
is reflected in the revenue,
and the cost of the budget,
the cost of the cost of the budget,
is calculated.
Next, we determine the need for investment.
That is, the manufacturers calculate
the number of machines.
We calculate the money we need
to purchase the main resources
and to create a supply of return funds.
And finally, this table,
when we put the funding sources,
provides liquidity.
That is, the net cash flow is not negative.
This is the parameter
that guarantees the profitability of our business
along with increasing profitability
and profitability,
the growth of the business's cost.
This kind of table is simplified,
but it allows us to summarize
and show the interconnection
of all inflows and outflows of funds.
In practice, they are more often
in a slightly different form.
They divide the cash flows
in the sphere of their occurrence,
highlighting operational,
investment and financial activity.
This is a detailed scheme of cash flows
in an electronic textbook.
I ask you to carefully understand this scheme.
It shows all accounting realities
and the correspondence of these flows
and the primary sources,
what it means in accounting language
and where the primary information
is located.
This table shows the inflows and outflows
of funds and the financial result of the net cash flow.
This is nothing more than a direct method
of forecasting cash flows.
I think it is very convenient and clear.
The main goal of this table
is not to miss any of the components
of the cash flows.
In addition to the direct method
of forecasting cash flows,
the broad spread received
a indirect method of forecasting cash flows.
That is, when we deduce
our resulting indicator,
the net cash flow,
from the data of other financial documents.
In a very simplified concept,
the net cash flow is calculated
from the total net profit,
depreciation deductions,
as well as the change in debt,
plus or minus the credit and debit debt.
These quantities are calculated
at any enterprise
according to accounting or planned forms,
form 1 and form 2.
Most companies use the indirect method
because it is easy to use.
If you look at the financial reports
of international companies,
you will see that after the main positions
there is a turnover, a profit,
and a cash flow.
This is exactly what we get
in the process of financial planning.
In addition, I want to remind you
that cash flows and horizon of planning
are a matter of time.
The cash flows we receive
and pay out at different times
are not equal to us.
The later we get the financial result,
the less interesting it is for us.
I remind you about discounting,
about how to provide data compatibility.
If we want to calculate the financial result
by the growing result,
by summing up the net cash flow by years,
we do not have the right to do this directly
by adding up the net cash flow
of the first period of 100 units,
adding up the net cash flow
of the second period of 100 units,
these units are not equal to each other.
Before adding them up,
we need to discount them.
In total, the discounted amount of the cash flow
is equal to the total discounted value
of the current value
that summarizes the financial result
of the activity during all periods of planning.
This indicator is usually necessary
for the new enterprise.
We are now starting to calculate
the investment needs.
We should remember that this is
the investment in the property,
in the assets of the enterprise.
Investments are used in the capital,
the connection of capital in production,
the acquisition of property.
On the diagram you can see
the investment classification
and the division of investments
into real and financial investments.
Real investments are strategic decisions
that determine in the forecast plan
what capital is needed
to purchase buildings,
structures, machines and equipment,
and what capital is needed
to create or increase stocks.
Financial investments are planned
as long-term investments
in other enterprises,
acquisitions of shares of another enterprise.
Or we can plan short-term investments
in short-term financial securities.
We plan short-term investments,
that is, the acquisition of short-term financial securities.
Accordingly, in the balance sheet, they are reflected as short-term financial investments in the second section of the balance sheet.
The calculation of investment needs
includes the assessment of the necessary
capital, the total cost of the necessary
equipment, machines, structures,
vehicles and other assets.
These calculations are calculated
in the production plan
as part of the justification
of production capacity.
They are connected with the established
strategy of the enterprise
and are used in the final form.
The only thing we pay attention to
is the correct planning
and calculation of amortization calculations.
The next component of investment
is the turnover capital.
It is the most important part
of the strategic financial planning.
The turnover capital
is the most important part
of the strategic financial planning.
Why do we need it?
It is a barrier
between the perception of this concept
and the mixing of the turnover capital
with the current activity,
with direct acquisition
and with the writing of raw materials.
The turnover capital
should be minimally necessary
but sufficient.
If we create unnecessary reserves,
it will affect the efficiency
of our activities.
A shortage of reserves
can lead to breakdowns.
The turnover capital
should be minimally necessary
but sufficient.
The situation of the turnover capital
is the absence of stock in the warehouse,
the absence of a position in the trading room,
the absence of fresh bread every day
or the absence of money for payment from the accounts.
The importance of the turnover capital
should be remembered
because it is the main factor
that determines the value of the project.
The turnover capital increases
when the enterprise develops.
The reserves of the enterprise increase
and certain funds are needed.
It should be remembered
that the turnover capital
can exceed the main capital
if the enterprise develops.
The calculation of the turnover capital
follows the plan of revenue
and the cost-benefit ratio.
We use the existing data
such as the revenue,
the cost of the finished product
and the cost of the material costs.
These are the main parameters
that we take from the strategic plan.
We take the annual cost from the meta
and remember that we have 360 days per year.
According to these data,
we proceed to the planning of the turnover capital,
sequentially moving from each position
of the current assets.
We start planning the reserves
and the cost of the finished product.
The quantity of the material and the resources
depends on the supply interval.
For example,
if we receive materials every 10 days,
it means that we have to form reserves
for these 10 days.
Therefore, we take the material costs
from the cost of the finished product
and the cost of the finished product
and the cost of the material resources
and the cost of the material resources.
In other words,
the turnover capital
will work in the resources of the resources.
The next component is the unfinished product.
This is a component
that is only for production companies.
For commercial companies,
this is a component
that is only for production companies.
The cost of the unfinished product
depends on the production cycle.
For example,
we have 15 days.
I will insert specific numbers
so that it is more clear.
The cost of the unfinished product
depends on the material costs
and the cost of the finished product.
The cost of the unfinished product
depends on the material costs
and the cost of the finished product.
The next component of the turnover assets
is the debitor's debt,
which is formed due to the fact
that we provide a delay to our buyers.
Accordingly,
we do not receive some part of the revenue
as much as we give a delay.
As much as we give a delay.
For example, 30 days.
Next, we can plan
the minimum necessary remainder
of the finished product in the warehouse.
For example,
we have a store for 3 days.
This also means
that we do not sell it immediately
and, accordingly, do not receive the revenue.
All these intervals of time
are interconnected.
We put here nothing but points
that make up segments of the financial cycle.
All these standards work
and determine the amount of turnover capital.
The more these management standards,
the more turnover capital.
If we sum up the resulting component,
the calculated component,
we get the total amount
of turnover capital
produced in the warehouse.
The turnover capital is the capital
that must be invested in our stocks.
the turnover capital is the capital
But, of course, you immediately thought
that in addition to the fact
that we provide a delay,
we are also provided with a delay.
We have a credit debt
and we will pay for it 45 days later.
And for financial planning,
we are interested in the amount
of net working capital.
This is the amount
that shows us
the amount of money
that is needed for investment
together with the main capital.
The less the net turnover capital,
the shorter the financial cycle of the enterprise.
The financial cycle is a normative one.
It is an operational cycle
and after 45 days
we have a 13-day financial cycle.
The shorter the financial cycle,
the faster the turnover,
the more significant the financial results.
In addition to this scrupulous method
of calculating the turnover capital
by all components,
we can calculate the turnover capital
by the turnover capital that has been formed.
We can calculate the turnover capital
In addition to this,
there is another method
of calculating the turnover capital
that is calculated at $100 per turnover.
If we have this normative,
we can multiply any planned annual turnover
by this normative
by adjusting the number of days in the period
and calculate the value of our turnover capital.
This is a similar calculation,
but here we determine
the separate costs
and the separate costs
for $100 of revenue.
According to the accounting,
it is easy to calculate the costs of raw materials,
amortization, and other expenses.
And we can set the same standards
for storing raw materials in the warehouse,
the time of production,
the storage of products in the warehouse,
and get the total cost of stocks
and the normative of the turnover capital
for $100 of revenue.
You can use any method.
The point is not to forget
to take into account the need for turnover capital.
This is the main problem.
Why does the enterprise have no money?
This is the first problem that arises.
It shows that all components are not taken into account.
All components are taken into account incorrectly.
The components are not thought out,
or the normative was taken into account during planning,
but in reality, the situation has changed
and no operational measures have been taken.
I want to emphasize the importance
of calculating turnover capital.
I want to emphasize that turnover capital is very mobile and variable.
It is the first component that reacts to any changes
in the market or within the company.
The need to calculate turnover capital
and monitor business activity
should be the basis of the work of financial services.
To monitor, it is necessary to regularly
monitor the balance of turnover funds,
monitor the warning options
and break-downs in any position.
There may be problems with the suppliers,
or something is not in order in production.
Or the finished product is stored in the warehouse,
so it is necessary to put the marketing in order.
I would like to draw your attention to the financial indicators.
These are external indicators
that easily react and show the situation
at our company.
They are followed by a system of organization
of production processes,
ensuring the production of products.
But, of course,
the head of the warehouse does not understand
what the cost of stock is.
But he understands well
that the delivery interval is 10 days.
Therefore, this parameter should be voiced.
Unfinished production is a financial
and economic parameter for the organizers
of production.
It is not clear, but 15 days
is the norm for which the head of the warehouse
or the head of the warehouse
is responsible for the production.
This is a purely financial parameter
and requires a lot of work,
meticulous work, regular work
with suppliers and customers.
This includes monitoring the reliability
of customers, the reliability of suppliers,
the payment ability of customers,
whether the supplier can withstand
the regularity of the delivery.
And you want to provide the supplier
with goods with a payment delay.
The more you provide the suppliers
with the editor's post,
the longer the delay period
is, the more the cost of delivery
is.
The more the cost of delivery
is, the longer the delay period
is, the longer the cost of delivery
is.
The turnover is an indicator of business
activity. If business activity increases,
the turnover is released.
If there is a slowdown in the process,
a new infusion is required
in any of these components.
So, we have determined how much money
will be needed to purchase equipment,
how much will be needed to create
or increase the stock of turnover
for the accepted program.
Now we must determine the sources
of funding.
Please see the slide
with the information about the source
of funding.
Please see the slide with the information
about the source
of funding.
Please see the slide with the information
about the source
It is important to separate the source of capital from the external and internal sources of capital.
External sources are those that come to our enterprise from outside,
and internal sources are those that are formed during the enterprise's activities.
Here is an interesting example.
The accumulated profit is the component of the capital itself,
the so-called self-financing, the internal source of financing.
An interesting position is the debt on taxes and fees, the internal source of financing.
The effect of financing here is that these obligations are fulfilled with a certain delay.
The payments of the current period are reduced.
For example, the special value is the pension fund.
This is the component of the cost of this period.
It reduces the taxable profit of this period,
and is reimbursed within the next 15 days.
That is, within 15 days, we have some amount of funds
that will serve as a source of financing.
In this case, it is short-term financing.
A specific source of financing is the financing of the re-laying and changing of the asset structure.
We are talking about amortization.
As you know, amortization payments are intended to reimburse the cost of the worn-out equipment
after a certain period, after 10 years.
But today, this money, together with others,
can be used to finance some current needs.
Or even to finance the development, to buy new machines, equipment,
production areas, trading areas, without waiting for the wear of the old ones.
At the moment, this allows you to increase your revenue
and in 10 years, to earn money for replacing the worn-out equipment.
These components, the internal sources of financing,
are the highest qualifications of financial management.
Financial managers are forced to work every single penny.
Amortization is used to finance the reserve payments.
Debit debt is sold.
This is the position of the factoring of the sources of financing.
The division of the sources of financing into long-term and short-term is understandable.
For example, the long-term source of financing is, of course, the capital itself.
But the capital is divided into both long-term and short-term.
The long-term source of financing is, of course, the long-term loans.
The short-term source of financing is the debt of the creditor.
Short-term financing is the most frequently discussed,
more lively topic.
In order to resort to short-term financing,
you need to take into account the existing realities,
the possibility of obtaining short-term loans, their price.
In addition, there are formal requirements for bank institutions
for liquidity and turnover indicators.
These conditions for providing short-term loans can change
depending on the liquidity indicators.
The creditor considers liquidity indicators,
identifies less or more risky borrowers,
and increases the loan rate depending on this analysis.
The Russian reality today is a strict control of the amount of clean assets in the borrower's balance.
Financial support for creditors is a very interesting and profitable article in financing.
It is free financing.
Here, of course, it is necessary to clearly control the payment deadlines
of the creditors and debitors.
In order to ensure the level of the contract,
we provided favorable conditions for us.
For example, we did it in the account of the turnover capital.
There were 45 days and 30 days,
which gave us 15 days of opportunity, 15 days of advantage.
What else should be taken into account when we solve the issue of financing?
An important component for a financial manager
is the ability to save on tax payments.
In particular, simple mechanisms.
It should be remembered that interest on loans is included in the cost.
However, in our realities, this is limited to the limit of the refinancing rate of 10%.
This will reduce the taxable profit.
You can save on tax payments by accelerating amortization.
In general, accelerated amortization is a powerful tool for saving on taxes around the world.
It acquires slightly different forms.
Because a limited number of enterprises
has the opportunity to save by using accelerated amortization.
In particular, leasing.
Leasing is one of the most interesting and best laws.
It provides that leasing payments can be increased by three times.
In general, leasing is a powerful tool.
In addition to using leasing, we save on one-time costs,
on the purchase of leasing items, on the purchase of equipment.
From a financial point of view, it is very important to save on taxes.
Leasing payments in full, with accelerated amortization,
with interest on loans, with insurance contributions,
are included in the cost.
Thus, the taxable profit is reduced.
These are the civilized ways to save on tax payments
within the framework of the existing laws.
When we talk about determining the source of financing,
we must remember the well-known rules and principles of financing.
Let's look at the principles of financing.
The first one is the principle of economic value.
What does it mean?
The price at which we spend our financing.
The average cost of capital.
That is, we must attract the funds that we need for financing
with minimum costs.
And if we have free excess funds,
we must use them in a profitable way,
by investing in securities.
The principle of purposeful use of funds
is associated with the so-called golden rule of financing.
That is, long-term funds should be used
to purchase machines, equipment,
long-term property.
And short-term sources of financing are used
to finance current needs,
to cover cash outages.
This is a clear rule.
It is actually violated at every step.
And what happens?
Let's take a short-term loan
and buy a machine, equipment.
The source of repayment of loans is always
profit and depreciation.
Profit is an indicator that may not exist.
Depreciation is 10% per year.
Compare 10% and the interest rate for a short-term loan.
Let's recall the golden rule of financing.
Why is it so important?
If we use short-term loans with a rate of 20%
to purchase the main funds,
which have a 10% depreciation,
and there is a little profit,
we are pre-claiming ourselves
to be unpayable.
For the next turn,
for the next snowball,
we need new loans.
New loans, new loans,
new money.
The next principle of financing is
the independence of financing.
Of course, when we use loans,
we must somehow protect ourselves,
minimize our risk.
We also have a 50-50 rule.
We measure the volume of the loan
with our own funds.
Limiting the size of the business
to the size of our wallet,
as the Americans say.
Let me remind you again
that the security of financing
is related to ensuring financial stability.
We talked about this
and said that it is a cornerstone
of financial balance.
In connection with the price of financing,
the price of capital,
with balancing on the verge of risk and profitability,
we can give an example.
Let's say the expected return on shares
of the company is 14%,
and the obligation is less than 9%.
What does this mean in terms of risk?
A higher return on shares
means that they are more risky
if I want to purchase shares of this company.
In order to protect myself,
I am not inclined to risk,
I will purchase bonds.
On the management side,
on the contrary,
my own financing is considered less risky,
and therefore the managers are ready
to pay a higher price for capital shares.